Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings kicks ass...thrilling and funny and surprisingly poignant, a wonderful mélange of on-point action, drama and humor with a just-right amount of fan service and overarching story connection.
In the end, Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings comes across as more cookie-cutter and generic because I have seen better Asian films. It's a competent film, but don't expect anything more than a Marvel blockbuster.
Flits between offering up a lively picture that strives to carve out its own space in the series, and simply serving up more of the usual Marvel template but in enticing packaging.
... this is a terrific, entry-level work that delivers on far more visceral action than we're used to from these films.
The work of director Destin Daniel Cretton and the entire creative team behind the film deserves a standing ovation. [Full review in Spanish]
This superhero origin story features some creatively choreographed, over-the-top martial arts mayhem while sacrificing much of its character depth and relevant cultural context along the way.
Overly busy on numerous levels, but proves it's better to have too many elements than not enough.
Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings at least continues the studio's track record of enlisting the talents of truly great artists. Here, that would be the commanding and charismatic Leung.
Shang-Chi works because it plays more like a classical martial arts movie than a typical Marvel film.
Great action, Simu Liu is a great kind of charismatic center for [the film].
What makes this film such a joy are the embellishments added on to the well-worn narrative.
Aided by a formidable performance from Hong Kong superstar Tony Leung, director Destin Daniel Cretton doesn't quite remake the Marvel wheel so much as he enlivens it with the kinetic, charming and surprisingly heartfelt Shang-Chi.
Director Destin Daniel Cretton breaks with traditional Marvel storytelling and uses flashbacks to propel the narrative forward. The approach emotionally charges an otherwise standard superhero origin story.
One of the most exhilarating Marvel movies yet.
Deserves its rightful place as one of the best MCU films to date.
Shang-Chi doesn't reinvent the wheel but shows us the peak of the MCU.
In a summer with films that used the family dynamic to create dramatic tension, Shang-Chi does it as good as any -- with some strong emotional moments.
Shang-Chi pilfers from already familiar and much more original and artistic Chinese martial-arts genre movies -- reducing them to the level of Marvel junk.
The picture rattles along with an unpretentious vigour too rare in the Marvel universe.
If Shang-Chi isn't as all-encompassing an achievement as Black Panther, it is up to the standard of quality set by the other Marvel films, and its ties to Asian folklore and traditions of filmmaking set it apart from the rest of that canon.
It feeds the fantasies of leaving your day job for some glorious adventure while acknowledging families are not always so picture perfect.
It's a good movie. It's got a plausibly fearsome villain by way of Leung, a nice ensemble of heroic personalities, and a dose of actually-poignant family drama undergirding all the rest.
Thanks to the exciting talent in front of and behind the camera, the film undoubtedly deserves a look, but it's far from the great success it could have been. [Full review in Spanish]
Not since Black Panther has the world of a Marvel film felt so vibrantly alive.
The picture would be worth seeing just to watch Tony Leung command the screen every minute he's on it.
Shang-Chi's character arc from car valet to superhero is a joy to watch, and Liu plays it with the right amount of charm and seriousness.
The thrilling stunts and elaborate martial arts and fight choreography create action sequences as elegant as they are exciting.
Top tier MCU movie with dazzling action sequences + fight choreography, but the emotional father-son dynamic humanizes the fantastical narrative. Tony Leung brings immense gravitas to the role + Simu Liu emerges as a formidable action hero.
It introduces us to a whole other world, steeped in mythology and authenticity, and it's a superhero origin story unlike any other. Dragon-sized epic and deeply personal, 'Shang-Chi' is a sheer spectacle and heartfelt joy to watch.
Its cultural impact is enormous, as it arrives when hate crimes against Asians in America is on the rise.
The likable persona of Simi Liu & comic relief of Awkwafina are highlights, despite the turn into an ancient Chinese village (wouldn't the govt. had built a factory on it?).
Shang-Chi is the best of the Marvel origin stories yet.
Shang-Chi reimagines the superhero blockbuster through the lens of a new, more diverse, generation and what immerges is a story better in every respect.
When given a chance to define its own lane, Shang-Chi integrates some much-needed vitality to the familiar proceedings.
In a movie serving as backstory, an origin story, and even another MCU expansion, the reinvent button on the impeding "superhero fatigue" machine is mashed yet again with a satisfying character-driven adventure... and one of the best Marvel films to date.
Shang-Chi grabbed me like Tony Stark did way back in Phase One, and he did it without being a Tony Stark clone.
You can almost see Marvel Studios reaching out to a wider world, desperately trying to entertain while being culturally respectful and causing as little offence as possible. A tough balancing act, but one it pulls off with an impressively light touch.
Liu... brings flair, grace and a touch of steel to an ageing Avengers line-up.
A metatextual antithesis to the racism and whitewashing in Marvel's own history, and a cinematic celebration of the Chinese diaspora on and off screen.
Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings toes the line carefully, delivering exactly the energy we expect from a Marvel film and more, even if it leans too much into the humor at the expense of real depth.
When Tony Leung is onscreen, he's the only thing it's possible to care about, and when he's not onscreen, it's hard not to wonder what he's up to.
Boiled tofu.
The great news: Superheroland has its first Asian lead . . . Even better, he's portrayed by aw-shucks newcomer Simu Liu, who simply explodes onto the screen early during a boffo bus-fight segment.
It's vanishingly rare for a film to actually deserve its hype. But Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings does so, and more.
Shang Chi And The Legend Of The Ten Rings is a strong step forward for the MCU.
When the conflicts are this personal, one is bound to get invested.
Simu Liu is a superstar in the making, ably taking on the title role with the confidence of a veteran of ten blockbusters, and holds his own against a cinema legend like Tony Leung.
Shang-Chi: The Legend of the Ten Rings marks the first time a Marvel movie has felt machine-manufactured to the point of being laborious.
It's a standard story, and it absolutely works... It's unique to the Marvel Universe because it's the first time they've done this.
I found it incredibly wonderful how they splice all these genres together. It's faithful to Marvel, but it's also very faithful to the traditions it's importing.
Shang-Chi is one of the best films in the MCU, featuring the most incredible fight scenes I have seen on film and a refreshing script exuding tremendous heart.
The special effects and flying dragons are all elegant and occasionally impressive but become tedious long before the film bangs and wheezes to its get-ready-for-the-sequel conclusion...
Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings is one of the best MCU films since Black Panther.
Shang-Chi feels like a welcome step forward for Marvel, in a direction not only of inclusivity, but true creativity that we can only hope suggests further interesting developments to come.
Cretton has fashioned a credible mash-up of Chinese mythology and superhero orthodoxy, producing something that feels of a piece with the basic MCU tenets and singular in its cultural detail.
An all-around excellent origin story, which features among the most exhilarating action in the Marvel series, continues the franchise's trend of showcasing much better villains than it used to, and builds to a surprisingly ambitious second half.
Almost any movie ascending out of the Marvel Cinematic Universe at this point requires a classicist's devotion to subtextual minutiae. Which is exactly why Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings is such a breath of freshly fantastical air.
Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings does develop connections to the larger Marvel universe. But the best compliment to the movie is the fact that it doesn't need them.
[The] film is peppered with marvellous fight sequences and only gets a trifle overblown towards the end. Its secret weapon is Awkwafina, whose effortless comic timing constantly undercuts potential outbreaks of pomposity.
Director Destin Cretton and cinematographer Bill Pope have created such a rich visual language for this film that it is unlike anything we've previously experienced in the MCU.
The film includes a variety of cameos, Easter eggs, and callbacks that MCU fans will appreciate, but the real attraction here is Shang-Chi himself. Liu is a welcome addition to the franchise.
Liu and Awkwafina have a delicate, delicious chemistry that raises this picture above the pack.
Not knowing what to expect and coming out delighted was probably my favorite part. A comfortable roller coaster of feels and fights that didn't pander to cheap lows or unrealistic highs.
Liu, also a stuntman and athlete is nimble and fearless, gracefully, effortlessly lifting the fight choreography.
If you're a Marvel fan, enjoy action adventure/martial arts, appreciate production design...and costumes that more than please the eye, or want to be entertained, this marvelous spectacle, Shang Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings will enthrall.
With "Shang-Chi," we get the safe and the familiar--amusing sameness floating in a sea of bland blockbuster commercially created contrivances.
The film boasts first-rate fight and chase scenes and a terrific cast. It's better than a lot of Marvel superhero films by a longshot.
In many ways that matter, this is a step forward for superhero movies and representation. In many others, it stays regrettably rooted to the spot.
Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings is an upper-echelon MCU film, and like the very best of them, it only leaves you salivating for the next installment.
Simu Liu steps into his role effortlessly. The pieces are more impressive than the whole.
Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings is the most dynamic, fun, clever MCU solo film since Black Panther.
Shang-Chi delivers an intimate origin story wrapped around an action packed adventure with some of the best action the MCU has ever seen.
Does it work? Of course. Marvel hasn't truly missed in a long time.
So what if the showoff climax subs depth for dazzle. As the first Asian hero in Marvel history, former stuntman Simu Liu is action poetry in motion and his epic starring debut kicks off the fall film season on a rousing high note.
Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings isn't top-tier MCU, but it's a solid origin story anchored by two fantastic performances from Simu Liu and Tony Leung, as well as some of the franchise's best action.
As an origin story, "Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings" works very well, and as an action-fantasy movie, it isn't too bad either. [Full review in Spanish]
Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings is nothing short of action movie perfection; this is the MCU like you've never seen before, and it's no exaggeration to say Simu Liu was born to play the MCU's newest Avenger.
Packed with a ton to like but little to love (or hate), audiences will leave Chi with frosting on their lips while cinema aficionados once more bemoan nothing substantial on their hips.
"Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings" exemplifies Marvel Studios' credibility and is supplied with plenty of heart and soul.
Geeky subtext aside, the film manages to connect with non-MCU obsessives by offering thrills, chills and laughs.
More so than his fists and fights...Shang-Chi is defined by the struggles of the heart, and that's often a much more interesting battle than any supervillain scheme.
Shang-Chi is effective because the stakes remain relatively small. It is, essentially, a family melodrama.
Shang-Chi and Katy are my new best friends.
A thrilling, fun and exhilarating slice of mindless entertainment.
Long live Tony Leung and Michelle Yeoh, who make a movie better by just walking into it.
It's a Marvel film for a Gen-Z crowd, ashamed of the more archaic avenues that the franchise has previously walked down, but also willing to engage with and ultimately embrace woke-minded alternatives.
"Shang-Chi" is a diverting popcorn movie that should provide Marvel fans with the action fix they yearn for.
Time will tell how well Shang-Chi penetrates into the mainstream, but it succeeds in throwing even a little bit of a curveball compared to the standard Marvel fare.
This latest Marvel movie has enough positive elements (action, humor and a story with deep family roots) to constitute an entertaining addition to Marvel's apparently endless stream of movies.
Shang-Chi isn't a must-see, but it's an engaging action movie brimming with both style and soul.
Somehow, still, director Destin Daniel Cretton (Just Mercy, Short Term 12) finds space to let blossom a genuinely touching emotive backstory for our immortal archvillain and a (however fleeting) fresh perspective on a martial arts master.
A celebration of flying-fist flicks with a history-making lead? This one feels like something new -- not just for Marvel, but for American blockbuster cinema.
Each half is solid enough that Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings really could have been two separate films: An origin story and its bombastic sequel.
If the thrilling Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings portends what is to come for the Marvel Cinematic Universe in its next phase, by all means, sign me up.
I won't be unhappy to see Shang-Chi again when he pops up in some inevitable side-quel, but I wish he weren't beholden to shared-universe machinations, instead of being the master of his magical domain.
Shang-Chi takes Marvel's action choreography to a new level of thrilling and the camera dances with the movement.
[Wenwu] wasn't just a one-dimensiona bad guy and I think Marvel does a really great job with this.
[The action scenes were] amazing, not just the way it was choreographed but the way it was shot it.
Star Simu Liu effortlessly inhabits the role of Shang-Chi, deftly balancing the contemplative, introspective side of the character without coming off as overly dour.
Shang-Chi doesn't just pull off a fun western xuanhuan, but makes it feel like a door being opened for future Marvel films.
